Let's start our project by defining
the basic project settings just like we did
in our previous project.
And in order to do so you will learn how and when
to use custom properties in CSS instead of SASS variables.
Now before we start with the code itself,
I want to first talk a bit about architecture here.
In this project, I don't want to worry
so much about architecture.
I'm not going to create all these folders
and all these files like I showed you in the last project
because in the last project I really wanted to focus
on that and make it like an important
feature of the project.
But this time, all we want to do here
is really to learn Flexbox.
All I'm gonna here is to just create three
very simple files, one for the base settings,
one for the overall layout of the app,
and one for our smaller components.
That way we don't have to jump back and forth
between all these different files and can focus
more on the code.
But this doesn't mean that architecture
is not important because it is.
But again, the main focus of this project is just
to learn Flexbox.
Let's now just create these files.
So base.scss,
then I'm gonna create
layout.scss and then finally components.scss.
Actually we can copy all of this stuff here
into the base file
and then import these three files into this one,
just as we did in the last project.
These three files here are our partials
and then we do three imports.
So import
base
and then I'm just gonna copy this over.
So base, layout and component.
Let's give this a save and take a look at our page here.
Everything is still working the same and so our imports
here work and we have our very small
and very simple architecture here all set up.
We're not going to need the main file anymore,
neither the component nor the layout files for now.
Let's now start with these basic project settings.
I want to start with the HTML,
and the first thing I want to do is to set
the box sizing.
I'm going to do it exactly the same way
as I did in the other project.
So I set it to border box here in HTML
and then I make everything inherit this property.
So the universal selector, and also the after,
and the before pseudo element.
So all the elements as well as all the before and after
pseudo elements should then inherit the box sizing
properties attached to border box.
So box sizing inherit.
And with that we have our global like reset here set up.
So the margin to zero, padding to zero
and all the elements inheriting the border box
for box sizing.
Now the other thing that I need to do of course
is to set the global font size.
And once more, we're going to set it to 62.5%.
And remember why that is,
this is just so that one rem equals 10 pixels.
So that makes it a lot easier for us to work with rems.
And just as a reminder why it's 62.5%,
that's just because 10 pixels which is our target
so if we want divide it by 16 pixels
which is the browser default,
results in 62.5%.
So this is just a reminder for you in case
you have forgotten how we reach this 62.5%.
So that is the HTML.
Now we have the body here already but the spectrum color
of course was just a test.
So what I really want to set here is the font family.
So font family, and as I mentioned, this time we're
going to use Open Sans which once again is coming
from Google Fonts.
So you see that I already included this here.
It's coming from Google Fonts.
If that one fails, so if for some reason the browser
cannot load Open Sans from Google Fonts
then we simply tell the browser to use
a Sans Serif font instead.
So that's pretty standard.
Now we also set the font weight to 400
and then the line height of the overall document to 1.6.
Now we also want that gradient that I showed you.
So the color here is gone.
And what we want for the background is basically
this gradient going from this pink color here
in the top left corner all the way to this
darker pink here in the right bottom corner.
So it's basically a gradient going from this side
to this side, here to this corner with these two
pink branding colors that we're using for this app.
These are the colors that we're going to use,
but of course we're not just going to add and copy
these colors down here to the gradient,
but instead we're going to use variables
just like we did before with SASS variables.
Now with this project we're not going to use
SASS variables because I want to show you something else,
something new in CSS.
And that is CSS custom properties
which are better as CSS variables.
That means that we can actually right now use variables
in CSS and don't have to rely on SASS variables.
Now maybe you're wondering what's wrong with SASS variables?
Why would we use CSS custom properties
or CSS variables?
Well the first thing is of course that with CSS variables
you don't even need a pre-processor.
So if you're just using SASS for the variables
then you wouldn't need it anymore because CSS
can now natively handle CSS variables.
But that's of course not the only advantage
of CSS variables.
What's also very cool is that they can be manipulated
in JavaScript and we can also edit them in our dev tools.
Also it's easier to use CSS variables in the code function
and also CSS variables cascade and they are inherited.
So they are very different from SASS variables
in that regard.
Let's now actually use CSS variables
for our custom properties.
Now these custom properties, they have to be defined
inside a scope and so within a declaration block.
So just like something like this here.
This is a declaration block, remember.
Now we could put these variables just in any normal
selector like any selector that we want
but then these variables would only be available
in that element and its children,
and that's of course not what we want.
Also, it's easier to just have one central place
where we collect all the variables in one place.
This one place is usually the root pseudo class.
Let's write that out.
So just like this.
So this is the root pseudo class and this is essentially
like the same thing as the HTML selector
but with a higher specificity.
By putting all of our variables in here,
they will be accessible throughout the entire document,
because that's what the root of the document is.
It's like the global parent element.
And therefore all the variables we're going to declare here
will be available to all the child elements.
And this is how we actually declare custom properties.
We use double dash, so // and then the name of the property.
So color primary and now we can copy this part here.
And that's it.
You see that it actually works very similar
to a normal CSS property.
So we have like margin, zero and up here we have
our custom property which is color primary
and then this part here.
The only difference is that we use these dash, dash
in order to distinguish between our custom properties
and a normal like built-in CSS properties.
Let's define the other two primary colors as well.
So color,
primary light which is this one.
And then color,
primary dark which is this one.
And now we have our custom CSS variables
or custom properties.
And so now let's actually go use these properties.
That's how it works.
Remember we want that gradient.
So background image, then your gradient,
then the direction.
Actually in here of course to right bottom,
and then the colors.
And this is how we use them.
We use the var function and then in here
we call our custom property.
So color primary light is the first color
and then,
color primary dark.
And that's it.
And now just the background size.
Let's add it to cover.
Now let's take a look at this.
And here we go, while it looks a little bit weird,
but this is actually what we told it to do.
We set this linear gradient on the body
but right now the body's only really this element here.
This small text that we have here.
So the height of the body is just these 16 pixels,
then from there the background simply repeats down here.
This is simply the same background
over and over again but repeated.
That's actually the default in CSS but we can remove that
by writing background repeat and set it to no repeat.
And now it should be gone, and here we go.
So now the background is only really on the body
element itself just as we specified.
Just for now let's increase this body
to cover the entire view port height.
So 100vh but later we're going to remove this one
when our element becomes larger, then 100 view port height.
Actually we can do it differently.
We can just say min height and then it happens
exactly the way we want.
The minimum height will be 100vh but if the height
can be bigger than that,
well then it will simply be bigger.
So this 100vh is not really like strictly enforced.
Let's take a look at that now and here we go.
So now it's covering the entire view port height
because we said that the body should be all of this
so 600 pixels in this case.
And the last thing I want to define here
is the overall text color.
Let's actually go up here and create
some more variables with these.
I'm actually just going to go ahead and copy these here,
and then just put the dashes here.
So I'm going to use multiple cursors here.
Dash, dash gray light
and then the number here of course.
Now adjust these ones.
These are our primary colors.
These are a couple of light gray colors
and then the darker gray colors.
This is here is the one we're going to use for text.
Gray dark two.
Let me add color here as well just as we had
before the primary colors.
Color,
var color,
well where are the other ones?
I want gray dark
two I think.
Maybe something is wrong here.
Yes actually it is.
So we're missing the semi colons here
at the end of the code.
So that's better now.
So hopefully it works now,
and yes here we go.
So it's now this gray color here.
These are our basic settings for this project.
We defined some custom CSS properties which behaved
just like variables.
Then we defined our global resets like with this
global box sizing set to border box,
and we did our margin and padding set to zero.
We defined our global font size so that
one rem equals 10 pixels to make our life easier.
And then we just set these font definitions here,
and then our background gradient.
We're not going to need this file anymore.
Let me just close it and then in the next lecture,
it's time to actually start building
the over layout of this project.
Let's move on now.